new quickstarts (#164)
Eppo-exp/eppo-docs: docs/quick-starts/metric-quickstart.md

# Your first metric

:::info
In order to create a metric, you must have a data warehouse connected and an entity created. See [the initial setup quickstart](/setup-quickstart) for details.
:::

> Metrics are standardized definitions of where data lives in your data warehouse and how it should be used to analyze experiments. In this guide, you'll create a Fact SQL definition to tell Eppo where data lives, and create a metric definition to standardize how this data should be used to analyze experiments.  

Reviewer: Nit: this sentence was a bit hard to read initially
```suggestion
Metrics provide standardized definitions for data within your data warehouse, enabling consistent analysis of experiments. In this quick start guide, you'll learn how to create a Fact SQL definition to specify the data location and a metric definition to establish how this data should be utilized for experiment analysis.```

### 1. Create a Fact SQL definition

Fact SQLs define events, like sign-ups, activations, or orders. Together, Assignment and Fact SQLs give a picture of what happened to different segments of users shown different variants of the experiment.

Follow the steps below to create your first Fact SQL definition.

1. Navigate to the **Definitions** page, click **+Create Definition SQL**, then click **Fact SQL**
2. Name your Fact SQL

> 3. Write SQL to return event data from within your data warehouse. At a minimum, the SQL should return a unique identifier (e.g., `user_id`) and a timestamp. You can optionally include numeric values (e.g., purchase price) and [fact properties](/data-management/properties#metric-properties) to later slice results (e.g., device type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Compose an SQL query that retrieves event data from your data warehouse. At a minimum, the SQL should return a unique identifier (e.g., `user_id`) and a timestamp. You can optionally include numeric values (e.g., purchase price) and [fact properties](/data-management/properties#metric-properties) to later slice results (e.g., device type).
```

4. Specify the timestamp and entity id columns
5. Create Facts for any columns from which you plan to build metrics, or select "Each Record"
6. Click **Save and close**

> ![Create Assignment SQL](/../static/img/metrics/quick-start-2.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Create Assignment SQL](/img/metrics/quick-start-2.png)
```

### 2. Create a Metric

> Metrics specify how the raw event data you defined above should be aggregated for experiment analysis. Follow the steps below to create your first metric.

Reviewer: I think we should make this more concrete and a little bit less terse; let's walk them through creating a Total Revenue metric; and explain that it is created by summing the "Purchase Price" events.

Would leave out anything optional, and rather link to the Metrics page for a deeper dive into all the settings

1. Navigate to the **Metrics** page and click **+Create** 

> 2. Select the relevant entity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the relevant [entity](/data-management/entities); 
```

3. Select the fact you would like to aggregate and the relevant [aggregation method](/data-management/metrics/creating-metrics#metric-aggregation-types)
4. (Optional) Set metric time window (relative to experiment assignment), and Winsorization settings
5. Hit **Create Metric** and repeat for any other metrics you would like to create

> ![Create Assignment SQL](../../static/img/metrics/quick-start-4.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Create Assignment SQL](/img/metrics/quick-start-4.png)
```
